So the next part of this pipeline is a Docker.
Now, let's learn a little bit about Docker.
What does Docker mean?
It's a container software.
What it basically does it that when you containerize your application,
it adds all your apps and their dependencies into a box,
except that the box is infinitely replicable.
I have listed this website over here,
which is the official Docker website,
which is what you can follow in order to understand why
you would need Docker since its extremely popular these days,
and I can quickly walk you through that.
Let me just do that.
So the Docker official website talks about
Docker being a platform for high velocity innovation.
So you could pretty much have your entire change or your template created
and then be able to give that to anybody who wants to use your container image.
So let's say that you want to use a particular version of Jenkins.
You want to use a particular version of Maven,
you want to use a particular version of a different set
of technologies than other people,
then you could create your specific template and then
distribute it or keep it in the Docker site.
Then whenever you need that specific set of technologies,
you could just use the Docker template that you have created,
and it is readily available for you.
So that is the main concept of containerization.
If you are interested,
I would highly recommend that you go ahead and have a quick look at
why Docker could be very useful for your business.
So that in case you were asked about your opinion about Docker,
you are able to provide enough information when you're doing
your POC or your Proof of Concept for your team.
So let's take a look at what Docker really is.
So on the right side here,
you see Containers, and we're specifically talking about Docker in this example.
On the left side, we have Virtual Machines.
So now, the typical virtual machine has hardware and their operating system,
and then there is the hypervisor that sits on it which spins different VMs.
However, in Containers, we do not have the layer of hypervisor.
We have the host hardware and the host operating system.
We have this client Docker CLI utils which are available for running different commands
which can hit the Docker REST APIs and that hits the Docker Daemon Server.
This is the concept of a Container.